# Data Science Portfolio
Pursuing Post graduation programme in Machine learning and Artifical intelligence , Here are some list of projects which i have worked as part of my academics.

_Note: Data used in the projects (accessed under data directory) is for demonstration purposes only._

## Contents

- ### Machine Learning

	- [Applied statistics: Health insurance](https://github.com/pankajigec26/machine_learning_projects/blob/master/Health%20insurance/Applied_statistics_techniques.ipynb): This project used Hypothesis Testing and Visualization to leverage customer's health information like smoking habits, bmi, age, and gender for checking statistical evidence to make valuable decisions of insurance business like charges for health insurance.
	  
	  Skills and Tools: **Hypothesis Testing, Data visualisation, statistical interference**

	- [Supervised Learning: Predict the income level of the customers](https://github.com/pankajigec26/machine_learning_projects/blob/master/Predict%20the%20income%20level/Supervised_learning_project.ipynb): This Project involved using classification algorithms to predict the income level of the customers based on attributes like 'sex', 'marital-status', 'age', 'occupation' etc. The classification algorithms that were used are Naive Bayes, Logistic Regression, KNN, and Decision Tree. And finally, a comparison of accuracy across these models was done to finalize the model for prediction.

      Skills and Tools : **EDA and Classification algorithms**
	
	- [Ensemble Techniques: Predicting the term-deposit subscription](https://github.com/pankajigec26/machine_learning_projects/blob/master/Predicting%20the%20term-deposit%20subscription/Applying_Ensemble_techniques.ipynb):Leveraged customer information of bank marketing campaigns to predict whether a customer will subscribe to term deposit or not. Different classification algorithms like Decision tree, Logistic Regression were used. Ensemble techniques like Random forest were used to further improve the classification results.
	
      Skills and Tools:  **Classification, Decision Trees, Ensemble Techniques**
	
	- [Unsupervised Learning: Classifying silhouettes of vehicles](https://github.com/pankajigec26/machine_learning_projects/tree/master/Classifying%20silhouettes%20of%20vehicles): Classified vehicles into different types based on silhouttes which may be viewed from many angles. Used PCA in order to reduce dimensionality and SVM for classification

      Skills and Tools: **Support Vector Machines, Principal Component Analysis, Classification**

	- [Feature engineering: Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/digit_recognition-mnist-sequence.ipynb):  Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.

	_Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib, Pygame_ 

- ### Data Analysis and Visualisation
	_Tools: Pandas, Folium, Seaborn and Matplotlib_

	
- ### Micro Projects: 

	- __Python__
		- [ML with Logistic Regression](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/ML%20Micro%20Projects/Machine%20Learning%20with%20Logistic%20Regression.ipynb): Using Logistic Regression to predict whether an internet user clicked an ad or not.
		- [ML with K Nearest Neighbours](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/ML%20Micro%20Projects/ML%20with%20K%20Nearest%20Neighbors.ipynb): Using KNN to classify instances from a fake dataset into two target classes, while choosing the best value for K using the elbow method.
		- [ML with Decision Trees and Random Forests](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/ML%20Micro%20Projects/Machine%20Learning%20with%20Decision%20Trees%20and%20Random%20Forests.ipynb): Using Decision Trees and Random Forests to predict whether a lender will pay their loan back. Uses publically available data from LendingClub.com
		- [Movie Recommendations using Recommender Systems](https://github.com/sajal2692/data-science-portfolio/blob/master/ML%20Micro%20Projects/Recommender%20Systems%20with%20Python.ipynb): A micro project to build a recommendation system that makes movie recommendations based on user review similarities. 


If you liked what you saw, want to have a chat with me about the portfolio, work opportunities, or collaboration, shoot an email at pankajigec26@gmail.com. 
